---
layout: post
title:  "I’m Going to DevCon Summit 2016"
image: ''
date:   2016-10-17 00:06:31
tags:
- devcon
description: ''
categories:
- Computer
serie: learn
---

I’ve finally applied to the DevCon Summit with a friend of mine. I didn’t get to apply last year since I was the only one going from my circle of friends. To be fair, considering the field I’m in (Medicine), that’s to be expected. While I’ve always believed that the health industry would be the next field to be disrupted by technology, most people don’t go to medical school to apply their tech skills.

The DevCon Summit is a yearly convention wherein people from the tech community gather round to see various technologies in different topics. People with different tech backgrounds come together to discuss latest programming innovations, new paradigms and the like. I’m excited to attend the convention though nervous at the same time, since as a computer enthusiast without any formal training, me and my friend have vastly less experience than the other people expected to attend. Still, I hope to make a lot of friends and learn from the people who have immersed themselves in the technology world for quite some time.

Aside from learning a lot about computers and programming as an enthusiast, I’ve always wanted to combine my knowledge of computers and medicine. When I am a health professional, I want to go into a field that meshes the two together in a way that leverages each of their strengths, in particular the power of technology in the medical field.

I’ve applied this year and the registration form brought up 6 topics that would be emphasized in the convention, four of which caught my eye:

-  Game Development
-  Internet of Things
-  Front End Frameworks
-  Virtual Reality

I’m excited for these topics, as I’m sure that these have application in medical school and Medicine in general.

## Game Development
I’ve read a book once that defined games as a “method of learning in a safe environment”, in the sense that by chasing objectives, you learn new things in a place where you can’t get hurt due to the game’s isolation from real life. In that way, this topic has a good impact when it comes to medicine, particularly teaching anatomy, surgical technniques and the like. Instead of having to work on live humans to practice procedures or working with cadavers (which don’t feel like the real thing), using games will work as a good simulation of the real thing, allowing people to learn without hurting anyone. It’s already being done in other places, with hospital using video games to teach surgeon residents how to do procedures, allowing them to learn and make mistakes without any harm done. Learning the concept of game development as well as techniques will make the games developed for learning even more effective, as they work with the pattern of addicting games that make the player  want to use it again and again.

## Internet of Things
This was one of the topics that caught my eye when i saw it in the list. The internet of things is essential everyday things, like an oven, shower, etc., that are connected to the cloud and allows communication with other devices as well as interaction with the outside world, all through the network.

## Front End Frameworks
Proper front-end web development and design has always been an interest of mine, and has especially.

## Virtual Reality
This has been conceptualized for the benefit of medical schools for quite some time now. Essentially, one of the uses of virtual reality would be to use virtual reality to put the medical student in a situation in which he could test things out in a way that won't harm actual patients, like checking out the insides of a "live" patient through VR, doing virtual surgery, which would allow as many mistakes as possible done without damaging a real person's body parts, and the like.

## In Summary
All in all, I'm excited to go to DevCon to learn more about the wonderful world of technology. Can't wait!
